next we continue our coverage of this
conference with a discussion on his
professor of political science and
director of international security
policy studies in the School of
International and public affairs at
Columbia University that I think is the
longest title I've ever read his first
book soldiers statesmen and the cold war
crises won the Harold D lastwell award
for the best book on civil military
relations he was a staff member of the
Senate committee on intelligence and the
National Security Council and he serves
as a member of the military advisory
panel for the Director of Central
Intelligence John Prados is a historian
international security analyst and
designer of strategy games he's the
author of eight books including keeper
of the keys which for those you who have
read it is about the National Security
Council and as a excellent account it
was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and
of course he's author of the Soviet
estimate he holds a PhD in international
relations from Columbia has designed
more than two dozen board strategy games
including the Third Reich which has a
quarter of a million copies in print
think of the royalties forthcoming are a
board game dealing with the intelligence
deception preceding the Normandy
invasion and a new book reinterpreting
the Pacific naval campaign of World War
two
let me just get organized here for a
second I have a lot of material as David
mentions that this particular discussion
is based on I'm not going to try to
actually go through it all but in the
manner of experimental results in
laboratory as you might find my comments
peppered with little numbers and letters
for those of you who care to go look up
the estimates that I'm referring to you
can by using those numbers and letters o
ar e is the name of the office of
research and estimates also office of
reports and estimates which did most of
these estimates during the late 1940s
and then the word nie stands for
National Intelligence Estimate
which was the name for the same kind of
report after a unit was set up for this
in 1950 and there's also the
nomenclature SE or special estimate
which was the name at that time for the
form of reporting that today we know as
the special National Intelligence
Estimate or SN ie the numbers here are
numbers index numbers that you can find
those reports by you will actually find
some of the reports that I'm going to
refer to in the compilation of documents
that was issued for this conference
others will be available the National
Archives and records group one which
contains the records of the Central
Intelligence Agency just to begin I want
to make a couple of caveats first of all
although our stack of estimates was a
foot higher that does not mean that it
was complete now some of the reports
that and some of the conclusions that we
may draw from this survey of estimates
could very well change as a result of
the declassification of other material
just to throw out a quick example
in 1949 fiscal 49 the production numbers
on our reports went up to number 91 the
number that is now in the public domain
is only 42 so there's a substantial body
of material still classified still out
there which way may modify or change the
conclusions to some degree for just a
for example some of you may know and in
fact John rain law raised this or
mentioned this a couple minutes ago
where in 1948 a report came out from the
agency that said that they promised
there would be no war for no more than
60 days well I believe that was first
sighted by Daniel Yergin in his book
shattered peace and in looking through
the different estimates I could not find
an estimate that may made that
particular promise although I did
encounter estimates that concluded that
the immediate chance of war was low in
the context of the 1948 crisis so again
until the complete record is out the
conclusions cannot be hard and fast
similarly in the case of analytical
histories internal histories of the
National Intelligence process and of the
Central Intelligence Agency you've got
the same kind of problem in the 1980s
when the first of these internal
administrative histories were released
the number of analysts working on
estimates in the 1940s were still
considered to be so sensitive that those
numbers were deleted from the reports
that were released thus it's difficult
to tell how well-equipped the CIA was to
do the work that it was doing in the
most recent declassification in this
series which was in 1991 I'm sad to say
that the number of deletions was
from what it had been in previous
releases including almost all footnotes
and if you're a historian you know that
footnotes are the equivalent of
experimental data in science that you
follow them down to find the material
you're looking for in any case we
surveyed a great deal of material I'm
going to report on some of the survey
make some comments about bureaucratic
process and pose a paradox and then dick
is going to come up and talk more about
maybe why this is let me start by saying
a few things about the process the
reports and estimates produced by
intelligence or a certain kind of fish
this is not all intelligence it's not
current intelligence it's not supposed
to be telling you what's happening today
the subject of the estimate is
predictive the subject of the estimate
is in the future the idea of the
estimate is to give the policymaker the
decision-maker an idea of what to decide
and how to decide it another caveat that
needs to be made in the context of this
discussion is that records that I have
seen at least do not tell us what Harry
Truman actually did with the estimates
that he received so again there's a
disconnect between what we know about
the estimates themselves and what we
know about their impact now the
organization that did these estimates Oh
our II existed within the central
intelligence group and then was in the
Central Intelligence Agency it was one
of the first units formed had a division
structure a library an Information
Center a planning staff had regional
divisions that did the estimates and
reports and then a global survey
division which was mainly response
for the estimates that we're talking
about today the estimates were
coordinated or I should say let me say
that this way
one of the main struggles in this period
that we're talking about from 1945
through 1952 and I'm sure that people
who were in the agency then will agree
with me was the idea of establishing the
Intelligence Estimate as an art form if
you will getting the other organizations
to agree to comment on the estimates
establishing that the entities doing the
estimating could have access to the
materials from all the other agencies
and winning credibility for the reports
there were many plans to accomplish a
adequate organization for intelligence
estimating I'll come back to some of
them in a minute I do want to make the
point that in this early period the
coordination that was done on the
estimates was done informally by the
people who work for the offices for Oh
Ari in particular the global surveys
division director also in contrast to
recent practice with National
Intelligence Estimates
the director of Central Intelligence and
even the Assistant Director for reports
and research and estimates the director
who headed this office Oh Ari did not
typically see the text of an estimate
until it was already in print the
average time of response from an agency
to the CIA for comments on a draft
estimate at that time was 17 days
alright now I'm going to run down a
series of regions of the world and
describe some of the estimating that was
done about the different ones I'm not
going to try and retail the contents of
the estimates only to discuss some of
the major conclusions and different
estimates and I may refer you to some of
the estimates in that context for
example on China CIA reporting was
actually pretty good
on China the agency was predicting from
an early date that the nationalist
regime of Chiang kai-shek had not that
much chance there was also CIA report
analytical attention given to the
question of the survival of Chiang
kai-shek in charge of the Nationalist
government several estimates expected
that he might or might not continue to
be in charge the Nationalist government
anticipated that he might be removed
either by resignation by coup d'etat or
by assassination there were also CIA
estimates that predicted that there was
little chance of a negotiated settlement
between the KMT that is the nationalist
Chinese and the Chinese Communists that
was in Ord 1248 there was an estimate
that predicted that there were
insuperable obstacles in the face of any
attempt by the nationalist Chinese to
create a redoubt in southern China and
try and hold out there that was in a re
3048 from the summer of 48 right through
estimates expected the demise of the
Chiang kai-shek government and indeed
the first estimate of that set predicted
that the fall of the Chinese government
could come at any time from December
1948 estimates anticipated the imminent
end of nationalist Chinese resistance
the CIA also observed I think
forthrightly in my opinion that the
Chinese Revolution what was having
happening at that time was quote part of
a long-term revolution
the course of which will be essentially
determined by local or national factors
and only to a limited degree subject to
external pressures by either a Soviet
Union or the United States that's in re
4548 the intelligence estimates
underestimated they missed the ability
of the nationalist Chinese to hold out
on Taiwan as you see Taiwan still exists
today as nationalist Chinese redoubt I
think that the main problem in
predicting the fall of Taiwan in 1948
and 49 and early 1950 was the evident
strength of the Chinese Communists and
taking over the country the evident
weakness and disorganization of the
nationalist Chinese and the fact that
Taiwanese already had a great deal of
opposition to the Nationalists on the
MOE
on the Middle East we looked at five
different estimates all before and
during the first arab-israeli war of
1948 many of them read like thinked
pieces that might have been produced
inside the State Department for example
there's consideration and CIA estimates
of or I should not say consideration I
just say argumentation in the CIA
estimates about why the United Nations
should quote unquote reconsider the UN
Partition Plan that created the State of
Israel the CIA did predict seven months
ahead of the event that any partition
plan would lead to a war between Arabs
and Israelis it did predict in the
middle of that war that
the truth there were several truces
during the course of the first
arab-israeli war the truce would benefit
the Israelis rather than the Arabs the
reports also had good material on the
mechanisms that the Israelis were using
to import weapons and equipment during
the course of the truces that occurred
on Yugoslavia excuse me on Yugoslavia I
looked at five estimates here I think
the key factor is the Korean War
Tito more or less seceded from the
Soviet bloc in the late 1940s the
estimates that the CIA did before 1950
uniformly conclude that Tito is in a
strong position in Yugoslavia has
domination of the government is
relatively popular that the Soviets have
no capability of influencing or
overthrowing him if you're familiar with
CIA current intelligence reporting in
1950 right after in the fall and winter
after the start of the Korean War you
will know that there were a lot of
reports at that time about buildup of
block forces in Eastern Europe well it's
at that time that the Intelligence
Estimates take a different track and
they begin to predict that Tito's got
troubles one of them indeed talks of the
possibility of his assassination on
Greece we looked at six estimates here
the agency seems to have done some of
its worse reporting the CIA did report
from an early date in these estimates
that the best chance for the Greek
government to win against the insurgent
elas rebel army was by broadening its
government pasts the content of the
far-right wing but the estimates I think
contain an undercurrent that is an
assumption that communism is monolithic
and is Moscow centered if you will the
1948 estimate Oh Ari 69 rises to the
point that I think I need to quote its
analysis of the consequences of a defeat
in Greece this is a February 1948
estimate coincidentally it was at this
time that the Marshall Plan
appropriations were in Congress and
having trouble getting past the estimate
of the consequences of the fall of
Greece where was that the USSR would
complete its domination of the Balkans
there would be an immediate clamor for
American aid quote on a scale far
exceeding what would have been required
to prevent the fall of Greece there
would be psychological and political
repercussions which if unchecked by the
United States encounter action could
result in an international panic quote
unquote Iran and Kurdistan would
immediately fall under Soviet domination
Turkey and the Arab countries would be
hard-pressed Italy would go communist
within a few months but in France de
Gaulle would come to power the State
Department dissented from those CIA
conclusions the Navy did as well the
Army and the Air Force refused to
comment on CIA political analysis in
that estimate on Berlin I think that the
agency did a very good job they were in
from the beginning with a non alarmist
view of the situation they did in fact
include that the Soviets were not likely
to attack in Berlin they maintained that
analytical conclusion through a series
of estimates despite pressures from
other portions of the United States
government they in fact concluded that
the main problem in
the Soviet blockade of Berlin was not
Western continued the continued Western
presence in Berlin but rather the
ability of the CIA itself to conduct its
intelligence operations out of Berlin
they predicted several times during the
course of the period 48 to 52 that the
Soviets might very well organize an East
German state or government and they were
on top of the situation when in fact the
Soviets form in East German army on
Korea where I looked at 14 estimates I'm
not going to say very much because dick
has something he wants to talk about
there but I just want to make two points
because these have been raised several
times first there are several estimates
not just one that predict including one
in fact it's printed in your book here
that predict that the Soviets will
attack the South second in terms of the
growing sophistication of intelligence
estimating it's in one of the Korean
estimates in 1948 that occurs the first
instance I have seen other than that OSS
analysis of Adolf Hitler the first
instance I have seen of a CIA
psychological profile of a foreign
leader on Soviet intentions I think here
you see some of the concrete impact of
the assumption of the assumption of
hostility the assumption of the
monolithic communist Oh actually that
recalls to me a Greek point that I fail
to make the assumption of the monolithic
communist control from Moscow led the
CIA into some of its worst analytical
errors it was in the Greek case in the
estimate following the one that I quoted
a couple seconds ago that the CIA went
on to predict at a time when in fact the
Greek government was winning against the
rebels that the Greeks had no
unless there was a major United States
intervention with all available forces
in a later estimate in that series they
predicted they failed I should say to
detect that Moscow had ended its support
for the Greek guerrillas an estimate
that was done about 10 months after we
are told by historical sources that
Stalin 10 months after Stalin had told
the Bulgarians and Yugoslavian
representatives to halt their aid and
stop the Greek war the CIA was still
predicting or still showing that there
was no letting up in communist support
for the Greek guerrillas and the same
kind of attitude I think is now
replicated in the very earliest of the
Soviet intentions estimates in the 1948
period during the time now we're talking
about of the Berlin Blockade
a time of greatly heightened global
tension the CIA was maintaining that
there was not a chance of hostilities
that the Soviets were not going to
attack Korea again was the watershed and
coincidentally it was at this later
period that the CIA was moving to create
an actual apparatus for making casting
National Intelligence Estimates that
apparatus was put into place by director
of Central Intelligence Walter Bedell
Smith he made the decision in November
1950 a board of national estimates was
created and put into place progressively
over the next several months during that
same period of time the Central
Intelligence Agency went ahead and made
a first series of about I believe it was
13 national intelligence estimates and
in some of those national intelligence
estimates we find fairly egregious exam
of thinking for example to give the
contrast now the CI was very forthright
just before the Korean War in the summer
of 1950 when an ort report was cast
analyzing the impact on Soviet foreign
policy of their possession of an atomic
weapon
the CIA compiled an estimate that gave
an extensive analysis of Soviet foreign
policy even back to the 1917 revolution
and used this analysis to predict that
the atomic weapon possession of that
would not have such a great impact on
Soviet foreign policy it would not lead
them to make an attack that they might
not otherwise make in fact that o re
report was so controversial in the
United States government that it's the
only report among the foot-high astac
here that I encountered that was
dissented to by every other United
States government agency now we come to
the first few weeks after the Korean War
or the first few months into the fall
and we get this initial series of nie s
that were done on a sort of a crash
basis for Bedell Smith to answer his
main questions in that group and I III
really gives the basis for that peak
year 1952 danger analysis that lay at
the base of US defense planning through
the rest of the Truman administration
that National Intelligence Estimate
concluded that the Soviets might well
attack during their period of relative
strength as a result of having the
atomic weapon and the invasion of Korea
that their advantages would disappear by
1954 because of the NATO buildup and
that the peak period of that advantage
would exist during 1952 if you look at
the United States defense budget
planning for this period
you will see that in fiscal 52 and
onwards the assumption is built into the
defense budget planning that 1952 needs
to be the year during which the United
States has peak military power that's
directly related I think to this
conclusion in ni a three I have a quote
I can find it here
oh there was the caveat in ni III which
I need hasten to add and that is quote
Soviet rulers would be unlikely to take
this step deliberately that is initiate
a global war unless they were convinced
that their most important objectives
were plainly jeopardized another grew
another of the National Intelligence
Estimates in this initial series of
important crash estimates was National
Intelligence Estimate 11 and that one
contained the somber conclusion that
Soviet aggression against the West was
likely quote unquote regardless of the
outcome of the Korean War in fact it
concluded and I quote here USSR is
prepared to accept and may be seeking to
precipitate a general war between the
United States and China despite the
inherent risk of global war the
possibility cannot be disregarded that
the USSR may already have decided to
precipitate global war in circumstances
most advantageous to itself through the
development of general war in Asia we
are unable on the basis of present
intelligence to determine the
probability of such a decisions having
in fact been made this prediction was
extended a few weeks later in National
Intelligence Estimate 15 which attempted
to cast what a Soviet correlation of
forces type of approach to the analysis
of the relative positions the United
States and Soviet Union and in that
estimate it saw the Soviets as operating
from a position of great strength and
said that in fact the Kremlin might have
already made the decision to proceed to
a global war later National Intelligence
Estimates stepped back from that degree
of concern and when they got to nie 25
which was a few months in the fall of
1951 let me say
they were able to conclude for the first
time that the Soviets would not initiate
a global war even if they thought it was
to their advantage to do so because they
could do things short of global war that
were advantageous to them and a global
war in itself was not loud well Montagu
who was at that time a member of the
board of national estimates after
heading the unit that had done estimates
for the CIA during the 40s himself says
that this ni a 25 was a watershed in CIA
intelligence estimating because it was
able to step back from these somber
kinds of predictions on the Soviet
nuclear weapon which Tom powers analyzed
very nicely yesterday the CIA was good
at the very beginning and got worse as
it got closer to the event that is in
1945 and 46 the CIA was predicting that
the Soviets might have well I shouldn't
say the CI G at that time was predicting
the Soviets might have a nuclear weapon
in production in five years and that
they might have a heavy bomber of the
type of the b-29 by 1948 both those
events in fact came to pass the Soviet
atomic weapon was in production in 1950
in 1948 the Soviets did in fact exhibit
their version of the b-29 in a Moscow
Airport ooh the event now and the CIA
maintained that five-year kind of
prediction then obviously the
predictions fell off until the point
that we got a big laugh at that they
were still predicting five years after
the Soviets had tested but I think
there's a way to account perhaps for
some of that prediction and that is that
throughout this period the intelligence
authorities were having difficulty
getting the military intelligence
agencies to share their information with
the CIA and getting FBI and getting
anybody else really cape State
Department cable traffic and
some cases was even a problem in terms
of access so it's possible that the
estimators trying to predict the Soviet
a-bomb were not getting access to the
kinds of material they needed to change
that initial impression of a five year
leave time for the Soviets what it did
do of course was something to the United
States that is in the larger sense was
something very similar to what had
happened to the British before World War
two when there was the so-called 10-year
rule ie that the the instance of threat
was going to be ten years in the future
would stay ten years in the future and
every year the instant of threat moved
up another year so it was always ten
years away and I think we fell into that
kind of thing with the Soviet a-bomb
there are other Soviet estimates that
are of some strangeness for example
there's a special estimate in the fall
of 1951 which contains a rather detailed
analysis of the Communist Party of the
United States of America and there's an
estimate in the also in the fall of 1951
about the possibility that the Soviet
Union might invade Japan to which Walter
Bedell Smith himself dissented on his
own estimate his own agency's estimate
because the military intelligence
agencies were saying that the Soviets
would only invade Japan in the context
of a global war and he felt that the
Soviets would not invade Japan even if
there was in general I think that the
CIA predictions through this period were
pretty good they responded to a set of
situations that were of
of high of crisis type proportions to
the United States there was a sense of
panic
the CIA avoided that panic except in
certain discrete kinds of situations
like the immediate aftermath of the
Korean War like the high point in 1948
and they were they were aware of the
emerging trends and postulated the
factors if not always drawing the right
conclusions in baseball if you have a
500 batting average you're doing pretty
well and I think that the Central
Intelligence Agency estimates of this
period were probably better than 500 and
I don't think you can ask much more than
that but and now I throw out a paradox
all of this occurred these good
estimates shall we say occurred in a
situation where and I think people in
the agency would probably agree with me
throughout this period everyone was
dissatisfied with the system for
estimating in fact the struggle to
establish intelligence estimating at the
central intelligence agencies throughout
this period was one of the central
bureaucratic struggles that was going on
within the CIA
lud well Montague who headed some of
these early operations his he had a plan
to establish National Intelligence
Estimates as a process at CIA and that
plan went through six versions before
Bedell Smith created the CI the viene
John Magruder had a plan for this build
Donovan had a plan for this Jack Smith
Jack Smith in his memoir says quote we
were not fulfilling our primary task of
combining judgments International
intelligence estimates so you have these
this constant desire to create the
National Intelligence Estimates and
dissatisfaction with the process at the
same time that the Intelligence
Estimates themselves
are pretty good and at that point I'm
going to open it up to dick for what he
has said
[Applause]
I'll discuss very briefly just a little
bit of the organizational evolution or
bureaucratic political background of
analysis and estimates in the period and
then I wanted just for illustrative
purposes
focus a bit more on the record of
estimates on one major case in Korea
since that's the main alleged
intelligence failure of the period and
also an example of some of the generic
problems and issues that have persisted
in the business of estimating I think
long after this formative period but I
should just noted a dance a bit of
personal background to put my arguments
in perspective because I've been known
in the past for my pessimism about how
much can be expected from intelligence
analysis and arguments that a high
incidence of surprise cannot be avoided
for a whole raft of reasons and that
pessimism may perhaps be why I'm here
since I always suspected that my work
was popular with some people at CIA
because in arguing for the imperfect
ability of intelligence and the
inevitability is surprised that that
sort of gave analysts in the agency an
excuse for messing up and others have
seen me as perhaps insufficiently
critical but I have to admit that after
looking at the Declassified estimates on
on Korea the arguments I made earlier
without benefit of them in a book I
published a dozen years ago on surprise
attack I don't think bear significant
revision but just the charitable view I
will have of this record especially in
regard to Korea maybe I ought to be seen
in that lighter taken with a grain of
salt
now obviously the Truman administration
was the formative period for
establishing this whole new bureaucratic
infrastructure for analysis and
estimates a period of lots of ferment
growth and change and in the process in
a very short time and in this I will
just skip over very quickly and rely
largely on the institutional history
done some time ago by my old colleague
on the church committee staff and Carol
ekeus but the argument there would be
the original aim of C IG and CIA spur
like Pearl Harbor to centralize and
coordinate did not immediately work out
too easily within a couple of years the
agency evolved into a competing producer
of intelligence without fully achieving
either original aim of centralization or
coordination largely because of the
resistance of the State Department and
the military CAG of course has started
out very small only about a hundred
people in 1946 Truman asks for daily
intelligence summaries from CI g State
Department insisted on providing its own
in addition there was a rapid increase
in the size and function of the agency
very quickly 300 more people in a re by
the end of that year and this led to an
independent role in intelligence
production that outstripped coordination
as the primary mission as Kara leaked
has put it although CI G had been
created to minimize the duplicative
efforts of the departments and
acquisition of an independent
intelligence production capability was
now contributing to the problem as owari
attempted to satisfy the wide-ranging
demands of many clients its intelligence
became directed to a working-level
audience rather than to senior
policymakers as such a loss the
influence it was intended to have the
president's daily summary became o Ari's
main priority current intelligence came
to dominate the effort as opposed to
long-range estimates I'd argued that
this was often a complaint complaint in
later generations in the intelligence
community the dominance of current
intelligence that the emphasis of
long-range estimating but it seems to me
that to the whatever extent that was an
accurate perception or a problem it's
probably inevitable in terms of what is
going to be most relevant at the top of
the government I guess probably no
president but maybe Jimmy Carter who was
always be rated for micromanaging and
assigning the White House tennis courts
but that I'd be surprised if any others
read ever read more than a handful of an
II's in their entirety but let me focus
just a bit on the record in regard to
Korea in part because it's been
discussed a bit already in the
conference because it was the signal
intelligence failure in the early Cold
we're in the view of many but was it the
record in estimates I think is better
than a lot of the folklore comments
earlier in the conference have suggested
and the problems and inadequacies in
them the failure as it were to predict
in the way that was necessary or useful
reflect generic problems in estimating
most of which have never been solved
satisfactorily in more than forty years
since North Korea attacked despite lots
of efforts periodically to do so through
reorganization resources and all sorts
of innovations my bottom lines on this
case would be that estimates before June
1950 did predict North Korean attack
under circumstances roughly similar to
those that ultimately obtained but
without specifics about timing and with
equivocation and mealy-mouthed language
about probability but this was the only
reasonable approach that one could take
until close to the event and it did not
provide the proper alert that with
hindsight we of course would have wanted
just before the actual attack but the
latter is essentially a problem of
current intelligence or tactical
intelligence rather than a long-range
estimating of the sort one expects in
nie s brings us back to the point I
believe with Sherman Kent who said that
estimating is something you do when you
don't know
so I'll cite some exemplary passages
from a sample of the estimates just to
focus this problem and maybe go into one
case in a bit more detail to complement
John's more general survey in 1948 in
owari 44:48 prospects for the survival
of the Republic of Korea the estimate
noted that after US withdrawal
the South Korean government would face
the threat of invasion said quote it's
believed however that a South Korean
army can be trained and equipped which
will act as an effective deterrent while
it was considered very unlikely that the
Kremlin will authorize aggressive action
against the southern zone as long as US
forces remain a knock
patient it is probable that current
Soviet plans call for an attempt to
overthrow the South Korean regime
immediately following US withdrawal and
that this would probably begin with
internal insurgency maybe then followed
later by invasion also said it is
believed that a formal invasion by the
People's Army in North Korea while not a
probability will remain a menacing
possibility in 1949 Oh re 349 just prior
to the US troop withdrawal argued
withdrawal of US forces from Korea in
the spring of 1949
would probably in time be followed by an
invasion u.s. troop withdrawal would
probably result in a collapse of the
us-supported Republic of Korea continued
presence in Korea of a moderate US force
would not only discourage the threatened
invasion but would assist in sustaining
the will and ability of the Koreans
themselves to resist and I think this
particular estimate was interesting in a
few ways first it did more or less
predict the eventual outcome although
perhaps not in a form that ultimately
would be useful for dealing with the
problem as we faced it secondly in a
sense it was perhaps too pessimistic
about the future in gauging the chances
for political survival or the regime in
the south and third the flavor of the
estimate and other passages as well as
this comes very close to policy advocacy
and it evokes all of the problems I've
always thought that make the question of
politicization extremely difficult to
deal with because it's very difficult to
do a trenchant analysis and an objective
assessment of reality that doesn't on a
controversial matter an important one
that does not seem to verge on clear
implications for policy and therefore at
least anyone who who disagrees with the
analysis as advocacy that contaminates
the proper objectivity
anyway what's also interesting about
this particular owari 349 was the
dissent from army intelligence and I
think it probably reveals the Army's
interest in shedding the burden of the
occupation of South Korea in the world
of the 1940s where forces were cut to
the bone and other priorities seemed
much more pressing
and reflected an unusual inversion of
the more common tendency for military
estimates to be more pessimistic or
alarmist than CIA analyses the Army's
dissent argued that the Army does not
believe that US troop withdrawal would
be the major factor in the collapse of
the Republic of Korea neither does the
Intelligence Division of the army
believe that such withdrawal would allow
immediate exploitation of South Korea by
the USSR as the main body of the
estimate argued the army descent
continued that the North Korean People's
Army at present does not have of itself
the preponderance of strength over South
Korean military forces which would be
required to ensure victory in an armed
struggle political and economic factors
other than the presence or absence of
the United States troops will have a
decisive influence on the future course
of events in Korea finally the most
famous estimate because it's closest in
time o re 1850 which was issued on June
19th
less than a week before the actual
attack said among other things trained
and equipped units of the communist
People's Army are being deployed
southward in the area of the 38th
parallel units their equal or surpassed
the strength of southern Korean army
units similarly deployed tanks and heavy
artillery have also been moved close to
the parallel in recent months at the
present time the northern korean armed
forces are probably psychologically
prepared to fight wholeheartedly against
southern korean troops an open invasion
of the republic by northern korean
military forces has thus far been
delayed in favor of a coordinated
campaign involving political pressure
subversion propaganda intimidation
economic pressure and military actions
by infiltration of guerrilla forces and
it's interesting i've found in looking
back at President Truman's memoirs that
he mentions in what sounded to me I
didn't think to check it since I didn't
have the volume at hand when I arrived
but very similar to something George
Kennan had in his memoirs that there
were ample warnings from the
intelligence community
about the possibility of communist
attack in Korea at that time but the
problem of course was that these came
amidst a raft of very similar warnings
about the possibility of such aggression
in all sorts of other hotspots around
the world and in this sense the Korea
estimates or warnings that in hindsight
look not that far off
perhaps represent the classic noise
problem that Roberta wall stutter
outlined so well now there was not such
a good record about the problem of
Chinese intervention in the fall and
winter of 1950 and perhaps a simple
example that which is reprinted in the
collection published at the conference
from October 12th 1950 read despite
statements by Joe and Lai troop
movements to Manchuria and propaganda
charges of atrocities and border
violations there are no convincing
indications of an actual Chinese
Communists intention to resort to
full-scale intervention in Korea barring
a Soviet decision for global war such an
action is not probable in 1950 during
this period intervention will probably
be confined to continued covert
assistance to the North Koreans
[Music]
somewhat clearer error there are some
other deficiencies that appear with
benefit of hindsight at least in some of
the pre-war estimates about Korea one
for example struck me was a fairly
consistent flavor of a simplistic
categorical emphasis on Moscow as the
decision-maker for North Korea
negligible attention - Kim il-sung as a
factor in his own right John mentioned
the personality profile that we saw was
a personality profile of syngman rhee
there may have been a personality
profile of Kim il-sung somewhere in
material we haven't gotten her that
hasn't been declassified but we sure
didn't see it and it seems that with
benefit of hindsight that's an oversight
a question and issue that would have
deserved much more attention just one
example a June 19th 1950 estimate
describes North Korea as under the thumb
of leaders happy to accept Soviet
control dis Ames's there's one thing
that's become apparent near since it's
the kim ill sung as a rather
extraordinary individual and risk-taker
and that in 1950 twisted Stalin's arm to
approve the invasion
so with benefit of hindsight certainly
more attention to whatever could have
been found out about him as an
individual leader and his entourage
would have been much more significant or
secondly it was interesting that there
were numerous contradictions that i
found in several of the estimates about
the issue of communist support in south
korea which suggested perhaps that some
of the judgments may have been made
rather offhandedly or on the basis of a
limited information or reflection for
example owari 62 said that 30 percent of
the south korean electorate were
communist supporters whereas re 44 48
said the Communists had quote very were
very small minority and quote in or re
1850 within the same document indeed on
the same page even it said that North
Korean leaders quote have gained no
popular support end quote
yet then noted that membership in the
party in North Korea was between 500 and
600 thousand quote an unusually high
percentage of the population end quote I
suspect some of these tendencies may
have just reflected a fairly axiomatic
view about the nature of communist
regimes in their relationship to Moscow
as opposed to careful analysis of the
case at issue on the other hand I found
it interesting maybe that analysts in
these documents could occasionally get
away with judgments that might have been
political disaster if Senator Joe
McCarthy had ever had access to them as
he did to any material from the State
Department of the army that he skewered
for
[Music]
communist sympathies for example Oh Ari
62 in 1947 noting that South Korea would
not be able to resist the north of US
troops withdrew because quote the
rightest leadership is so
single-mindedly bent on dictatorial
control that following its accession to
power in an independent South Korean
government the moderates would join the
leftist camp I'm not sure how much in
the way of very trenchant conclusions
can be drawn from what we could see of
the record of estimates in the truman
period seems to me probably the apparent
organizational shift to independent
production may have been the only way in
terms of bureaucratic political
realities for CIA to carve out a
dominant role eventually in the process
given the tenacity and possessiveness of
line departments that's a fairly general
organizational phenomenon the estimates
themselves were problematic in many ways
often Delphic hopelessly hedged or or
sometimes superficial and obvious in
their conclusions but they're probably
not far from as good as we could
realistically expect them to be given
the inherent uncertainty involved in
most of these issues which really
precluded judgments that would not fudge
in hedge and finally it's not clear to
me how much later evolution of the
organization and process brought notable
progress in the quality of estimate of
progress of products I don't know how
one would really seriously try to
measure this I can't prove the point all
I have is the impression that stacked
next to a random sample of N II's I
remember reading from other periods
including the 1970s and 80s the early
ones from the Truman administration
don't appear to me to be primitive and
markedly inferior
[Applause]
in order to stay on our schedule I'm
afraid we'll have to try and work in
questions for this panel later so would
you please as we did yesterday either
take all your materials with you or put
them on the chair and then leave this
room for the foyer for a 15-minute break
so we can set up thank you and thank the
very distinguished panel again
this week the Central Intelligence
Agency has hosted a conference on the
origins and development of the agency
you can see this portion again later
tonight on c-span 2 at 3:35 a.m. Eastern
Time